hey guys today I wanted to talk about
hydration systems or more specifically
water bladders as you can see here I
have two osprey bladders the older
original osprey bladder and also the new
Osprey hydraulics bladder both around 3
liters I also have the clean kit and I
have also used camel backs before hand
but unfortunately have broken so I don't
have any with me because I threw them
out why do I use the Ospreys now instead
of using the camel backs well first and
foremost I have found them a little bit
more reliable a little bit easy to use
and a little bit simpler really so from
here going with the original one the
thing I liked about this one again 3
liters same as this one
it had this hard backing which actually
this came with my mantra 25 liter pack
off the top of my head and this actually
sat really really nicely inside the bag
and I felt really comfortable against
your back so this is even though this is
a quite old and I've got a newer bladder
I still use this bladder in that
backpack especially in that backpack
because it's just so comfortable and it
molds so well other things I liked about
this is the handle here and the really
really large opening so you can see here
nice and easy so great bit of kit things
I didn't like about this bladder so much
is cleaning the hose did get a little
bit difficult because you have to fill
around or taking this handle off before
you could take the hose off which is a
bit of a pain in the ass however that's
been sold within your butter as you can
see here it's much easier to be able to
disconnect the hose overall though if
this is the only thing you have in your
store still a great bit of kit I've used
it quite quite numerous amount of times
as you can see it's got a bit of wear
and tear around it but I'm definitely
definitely a great bladder nice a simple
easy to feel good hand carrying handle
and it sits really well especially the
small
backpacks so onto the newer hydraulics
bladder a bunch of cool things with this
one again the handles been a little bit
slim line but it's thrilling nice and
comfortable to carry the openings still
quite large it's really nice and easy to
close don't have to screw it
you know 10-15 times in any one
direction to close it it's pretty much
half a turn the markings are really easy
to see on the side here so you can add a
glance see how much water you have left
the hose really easy to take off and
give it a good clean same kind of system
with the mouthpiece so overall again
it's it's really simple and it just
works does have a hard backing you can
see the shapes a little bit different
it's not quite that curved as you saw in
the previous bladder let me just say
it's my phone income pretty popular this
afternoon it doesn't have the same
curved backing as the original bladder
did so I don't find this as comfortable
in the small backpacks but in the bigger
camping backpacks it doesn't you don't
really feel it it doesn't matter too
much at all so great little great
bladder it actually feels a little bit
over three liters if you go on the
website I put on the specs here but it
contains all the kind of fancy
antibacterial lining on the inside yada
yada yada well regardless doesn't matter
what it has on the inside you still have
to clean them I did buy this clean kit
so and I brought the Osprey hydraulics
they offered to throw this in for a
couple extra bucks I thought why not so
let's open it up and have a look what's
inside and I'll give you some extra info
so things I like about this kit oh let's
go take everything out first see
everything is kept in this nice little
bag which makes life a little bit easier
as you can see there's a very few things
in here
all right so you have here cleaning
tablets these are the Osprey ones there
are Camelback wands there's heaps of
information on the Internet vinegar
baking soda bleach freezing blah blah
blah I won't go into it in detail at the
moment however you know most cleaning
kits come with some tablets so might as
well use those see how they go and
they're not too expensive anyway another
thing you have in the kit is from here a
scrubber so this is really good to get
inside of the bladder itself and give it
a good scrub make sure it's on nice and
clean that you have here and this is
really one of the good things inside
this kit is this bit of wire with the
cleaning brush on the end to help clean
the house so this is one of the
big-ticket items the big draw items
inside this kit which is why I decided
to get get the kit you can get a bit of
wire and some tissue and muck around
with it that way but I just like having
a nice dirty cleaning tool for that the
other thing which comes in this kit
which I'm not the biggest fan of is this
now this helps you drive the bladder but
two things number one it's not too bad
to get inside but it does require a
little bit of effort to get in there
properly that's actually the easiest
table so we've gone in before so there's
that
annaclaire I don't know how this works
yeah I guess the clan you'll hook it up
somehow offer clotheslines pain in the
ass also get out now what I mean by pain
in the ass is comparing it to what I
normally use so that wasn't too
difficult but
barbecue tongs easy breezy take up this
room I've dropped the bladder really
really well and this is something even
though I have this I've always just used
barbecue tongs so that alone makes
cleaning drying out the bladder really
really easy but um that's pretty much
that so that was a quick look of the old
hot spring attic here the site a new one
and also the cleaning kit as usual guys
if you have any questions feel free to
ask are trying to a more detailed video
on the bladder itself with some
specifics thanks for watching and see
you guys